It's time for us to do the autocomplete,
you gonna make it happen.
And I think at this point we've
learned enough of the little pieces
along the way that is going to be
less painful than we all imagined.
Because we have walked down this
road together and here we are.
So if I just look quickly at this UI,
that's not it.
I look quickly at this UI,
it's gotta search field.
There is a fetch button in case I wanted
to fetch them by hand manually we're gonna
say as they type in here.
I wanna show at least some of
the names names onto the page.
Well, we'll use a button later.
Cool.
So, the thing about what we need to do,
well we know that we need to
get the value of the input.
Right, we've dealt a lot with buttons, but
we are going to need an input field and
a value that we're working with.
So let's go ahead and
that's nothing super surprising here.
We'll say that our search
stream is from the event of
that search field,
which I've got cast already.
And really we care about
input at this point, right?
Whenever they put new input in there,
that's when we want to jump in and
deal with it.
But as with most things like if you've
used a framework namely react that,
it's not just the event that you
need see event target value.
Alright, so what's in this search
field that we really need, so
we can actually grab map at that point.
Because this is not an observable,
it's not anything asynchronous,
simply a value we'll go ahead and
we'll grab the event.
Target value, right?
So now whenever there's input,
we haven't subscribed to it yet, but
we'll get it and
we'll get the value of that.
Well, inputs a little, we'll get
the value of the input field itself.
Input will be whenever they change
a letter in it or something in the signs.
Cool and.
We have two choices here,
I can put a merge map in here, or
I can use a different map.
What kind of map do we wanna merge,
cause we have to make a fetch from here.
Let's try marshmallow.
Let's do it.
Let's learn together.
Map, we'll take the search term,
because we know we wanna make a fetch.
And from here, we'll say, we'll return,
From fetch our endpoint.
And this is,
I happen to know that the endpoint is,
if you look surely we want to
change this one a little bit.
Because we're gonna put
that delay on the end
Maybe spell search right.
Sweet.
I think the endpoint in
there was more helpful, but
we've got this search where I should
be able to do API pokemons search pika.
Let's just verify that real quick
before I get too far ahead of myself.
Yep, there's Pikachu We don't
get a lot of data about Pikachu.
We'll learn more about Pikachu later,
right now all we know is his
number 25 in the pokey dex.
His name is pikachu and he's a mouse
pokemon, so we can search from fetch and
then we'll say plus whatever
the search term was.
Right?
That's gonna be a little bit problematic.
So we also need to go ahead and
get the, what's not problematic.
It's just we know that we need
the response because the fetch API.
So we'll say pipe, so
another merge map in there and
we will say that we want to do response
to JSON right, we know that.
And when that's all done,
when we've got everything,
we will clear the results from the page.
We'll add, I wanna actually just,
so if you looked at the API before,
I wanna actually just get the array,
so there's an operator,
another I could use map.
The other thing I could use is pluck and
pluck.
You might have seen it from lodash,
pluck will just grab a given field.
So in this case, we want pluck,
do a little bit data manipulation here.
So we just want that array in there.
And then we'll add results, and
then we'll subscribe to that search event.
Now I could do the add results
in the subscribe as well.
I'm just kind of showing you,
you can do both.
All right great.
This is not gonna work
perfectly we know that.
Some of you are like, why isn't he.
I'm not we're not doing that yet
we're gonna see how it behaves first and
foremost.
Let's make sure it doesn't
blow up at all first.
So it works great in a very
fine situation, right?
But what happens if we add just
a little bit of chaos energy here?
Right, what happens when we say
delay could be like second.
With a little bit of fuzziness to it.
All right, and we'll say, no actually
Bulbasaur, no actually Charmander.
And like sometimes it works out, but
you can see that it's kind of
all over the place, right?
Other requests that we're doing even had
pika and there was a pity on there, right?
Because the requests are coming
back at the wrong time.
We don't care about the previous requests,
what should we do?
>> Switch map.
And the one thing that I wanna show you,
that's kind of nice from using from fetch.
If we go in here,
we've got our network requests.
You can actually see that from
fetch is actually full on canceling
those requests for you.
So every time we use a switch map, and
we've unsubscribed from that observable.
Not only are we not
listening to the response,
we're also just full on
canceling that request.
Now, what would we do just kinda tie
in some previous things all together?
What would we do if we wanted
to wait a little bit of time,
before we even sent that request?
>> Bounce
>> Bounce.
This is probably the bounce time, right?
So I have that imported already?
Bounce time.
Okay, so here, we could say,
when an input event happens,
With bounce time,
let's say 300 milliseconds.
So now instead of like we can cancel
those requests, they're still going out,
though the server doesn't
know that they're canceled.
The browser knows, server doesn't.
So we now we can say, okay,
only when they pause, right?
Kind of pulling them what we saw before
when we implemented that notification when
they chill out for
about 300 milliseconds, then.
And you could do this any other way really
and then we'll go fire the request.
So now if we take a look at
the network panel down here.
We can go like nothing
until we stopped typing for
what felt like a reasonable
amount of time.
So now we don't thrash through
canceling those requests,
we can simply say only do this
while things are happening.
The other thing that we can do, and
this won't actually do anything.
I just wanna point it out, is we have this
operator called distinctUntilChanged.
Which basically won't as long, if it's
the same value as it was last time,
don't do anything.
Right now between a switch-map and
the fact that input fields only emit when
they've changed,
doesn't really do a lot for us.
But I kind of just want to
make you aware that it exists.
So we'll get that value.
We'll say distinct until changed.
And so now, even if.
We really want that on the endpoint,
though, like that worked, but
that's not where not to put it.
Work either way, so
we just string the catenating.
So if it's the same value like the bounce,
if for some reason you get to the.
I mean, this could actually theoretically
work is like the input field is
going to change.
But even after 300 milliseconds,
if it's the same value was last time.
Don't send another request, right?
So now we're really trying to treat
the backend team nicely here.
Alright, so chill out until they
stopped for 300 milliseconds,
then go get the value of that input field.
If it's the same thing it was last time.
We don't need different results.
This isn't changing, right?
Otherwise go with the most
recent request that we received,
forget all the other ones, and
then we'll show it onto the page.
And like effectively,
that's an autocomplete in our extrius.
Right.
Now, I just want to again talk about like,
if we started with that,
you might have cried.
But as you build up all the small pieces,
right,
all these things that we've
kind of done over the way.
Kind of all begin to snap together,
and become one kind of solid
workflow in this case.
If I just wanted to show the name
here I could also like theoretically,
map over it.
Pull out just a given property,
so on and so forth